The Gump is a central character in Disney's 1985 live action fantasy film Return to Oz, performed and voiced by Lyle Conway and assisted in the performance by Steve Norrington. Depicted somewhat like a green-furred moose, this Gump is assembled by Tik-Tok, Jack Pumpkinhead, and Billina, with Dorothy Gale applying the Powder of Life. This Gump escapes Mombi and survives the Nome King ordeal. Tik-Tok is a character who appeared in several Oz books, beginning with Ozma of Oz. He is a machine man controlled by clockwork, which needs to be wound regularly. Tik-Tok is often considered the first robot to appear in literature. He also appeared in the film Return to Oz, which starred Fairuza Balk as Dorothy Gale, in which he is a main character. Tititi-Hoochoo, the Great Jinjin and Private Citizen, is a Peculiar Person, who rules an unnamed opposite land on the exact opposite side of the earth from the Land of Oz. Like the other people of that land, all his limbs are of a different color than the others, although he has no heart. The two places are connected by the Forbidden Tube, which was created by Hiergargo the Magician who wanted to save travel time between the two places and whose rash use of the tube destroyed him. He appears in Tik-Tok of Oz. [28]
The Wise Donkey is a character from  A New Wonderland (The Magical Monarch of Mo) (1899/1903) and The Patchwork Girl of Oz (1913). He began life as an ordinary donkey in Phunniland (Mo, a land even stranger and less logical than Oz), but after consuming numerous books, he learned their contents and became a wise advisor to the King. He sometimes acts in his own interests, at least to the extent of making sure his are met when he aids others, such as suggesting an apple for rescuing Nuphsed, which doesn't work, but when he is fed the apple, he gives an answer that does. Somehow, he was able to cross the Deadly Desert that surrounds Oz and he took up residence with the Foolish Owl who originally resided in Munchkin Country. The Wise Donkey states that he was visiting on the day Oz was cut off from the rest of the world and was unable to return home. He is seen dusting his house when he is visited by Ojo, Scraps, and Bungle. The Wize Donkey believes that someone as wise as he is should find the Foolish Owl unique and amusing. His logic is regarded by Scraps as so askew that she tells Diksey Horner that he sounds like the Wise Donkey. Baum created other characters for the series that are either mentioned in passing, or play minor roles in the series. The following are in this category. 