[11]
Dr. Pipt also invented the Powder of Life. Although in The Marvelous Land of Oz, has this invention credited to another crooked magician named Dr. Nikidik from the Gillikin Country. In an article in the Spring 1965 issue of The Baum Bugle, Lee Speth argues that Nikidik faked his death in the earlier book, to assume a new identity as Pipt. He was deprived of his magic abilities by Glinda for doing magic without a permit. Glinda also straightened his crooked limbs. In The Lost Princess of Oz, Dr. Pipt assists Ojo and Unc Nunkie in a search party that is organized to find Princess Ozma. Dr. Pipt appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz voiced by JP Karliak. The Foolish Owl is a great blue owl that lives in Munchkin Country and speaks in nonsense poetry. She and the Wise Donkey serve as public advisors. She first appears in The Patchwork Girl of Oz where Patchwork Girl, Ojo, and Glass Cat stop by the office of the Foolish Owl and the Wise Donkey where they knew about their current mission. Captain Fyter the Tin Soldier is a character who is first introduced in The Tin Woodman of Oz. After the Tin Woodman left his beloved Nimmie Amee after losing his heart (as he felt he could not love her), Fyter, a member of the Munchkin army, met and fell in love with her when he found her crying over her lost love. Unfortunately, she was a ward to the Wicked Witch of the East, who made Fyter's sword do what the Woodman's axe did and cut off his limbs, which Ku-Klip the tin smith replaced with tin limbs (although Fyter is not bothered by his lack of a heart). Nimmie Amee agreed to marry him, but on the day of their wedding, a storm rose up, and the rain rusted Fyter so badly that he was frozen in place along a little used forest path. There he stood for years until he was discovered by the Tin Woodman, the Scarecrow, Woot the Wanderer, and Polychrome the Rainbow's Daughter. Once lubricated and restored to life, Fyter accompanies the group of adventurers on their quest to find Nimmie Amee, intending to fulfill his vow of marriage (although he is willing to give her up if she chooses the Woodman over him). When they finally find her, she is happily married to Chopfyt, the assembled and combined "meat" parts of the two men. Finding Nimmie Amee happily married, they return to the Emerald City where Captain Fyter joins the Royal Army of Oz. Eventually, Ozma sends Fyter to keep order among the wild inhabitants of the unknown areas of the Gillikin Country. Bungle the Glass Cat is a cat made of glass who was brought to life by the "Powder of Life" in The Patchwork Girl of Oz (1913). She is portrayed as vain and aloof, due to the fact that she has clearly visible pink brains and a transparent glass heart. Jinjur is the head of an all female army of revolt. She and her ladies attempt to overthrow the Emerald City and install Jinjur as the ruler of Oz in The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904). She also appears in several other Oz books. The Kalidahs are a fictitious species of animal in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. [12] They are mentioned and featured in the first half of the story when Dorothy Gale and her companions are traveling through the dark forest. A Kalidah is characterized as a ferocious monster having the head of a tiger and the body of a bear. Although two kalidahs are killed in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, Baum had decided by The Magic of Oz that the inhabitants of Oz are immortal, so a kalidah, though pierced through the heart, survives. Other Kalidahs appear in The Magic of Oz, where they bother Trot and Cap'n Bill. In The Patchwork Girl of Oz, Dr. Pipt keeps Kalidahs struck with his Liquid of Petrefaction by the entrance to his house. The creatures play an important part in Eric Shanower's "Gugu and the Kalidahs. "[13] Phyllis Ann Karr's short story "The Guardian Dove," published in the 1990 issue of Oziana, provides a detailed treatment of Kalidah culture. The 1975 stage musical The Wiz includes a musical number "Kalidah Battle," featuring the Kalidah Queen and two of her gang. [14] In the film adaptation of The Wiz, the Kalidahs are two red paper lantern-alike marionettes controlled by the Subway Peddler, the Wicked Witch of the West's henchman. 