In John R. Neill's Oz books, the Guardian of the Gates and the Soldier with the Green Whiskers are frequently shown as friends, but the subsequent books of Jack Snow give the duty to Omby Amby (the Soldier's name), and there is no entry for the Guardian of the Gates in Snow's Who's Who in Oz. In Neill's The Scalawagons of Oz, the Guardian mentions a desire to visit his cousin, Oompa, which may explain, in-universe, why Omby Amby is fulfilling that function while the other man was on vacation. Further confusion is created in the MGM movie, in which both roles are played by Frank Morgan, and publicity referred to the Guardian's equivalent as "the Doorman" and the Soldier's equivalent as "the Guard". No other Guardian of the Gates is described in any of Baum's books, aside from a stout woman who takes over the function during Jinjur's rule. In The Marvelous Land of Oz musical, in which the role was originated by Steve Huke, the Guardian is conflated with the man interviewed doing housework, and he also claims to have a wife and ten children, a claim not made by anyone in the book. The Guardian of the Gates had his own eponymous song, written in bass clef, in The Wizard of Oz musical extravaganza, by Baum and composer Paul Tietjens, but it was cut after only two performances and never made it to Broadway, although the sheet music was published for consumer use. In the 1939 adaption of The Wizard of Oz, the Guardian of the Gates appears as the "Gatekeeper" portrayed by Frank Morgan (who also portrays Professor Marvelous, the Wizard of Oz, the Emerald City Coachman, and the Guard). When Dorothy, Toto, Scarecrow, Tin Man, and Cowardly Lion reach the Emerald City, they ring on the bell which alerted the Gatekeeper. When he notices that there is no sign near the bell and puts it up before closing the door's window where it says "Bell out of order. Please knock." They knock which pleases the Gatekeeper and were able to persuade him into letting them go to the Wizard by showing the Ruby Slippers that Dorothy has. The Gatekeeper lets them into the Emerald City. Many film and television adaptations conflate Omby Amby and the Gatekeeper for convenience. An example is Oz the Great and Powerful, where Bruce Campbell plays an unnamed character who exhibits traits of both men. In The Muppets' Wizard of Oz, Sam the Eagle portrays "the Gate Guard." In The Wiz Live!, Common portrays "The Bouncer / The Gatekeeper Of The Entrance To The Emerald City." Jellia Jamb, aka the "pretty green girl", is the head maid of the Emerald City's royal palace. She first appears in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900) and is first named in The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904). Jellia Jamb is portrayed as a rather sweet and organized girl when on duty, but mischievous and playful when off duty. She is said to be very pretty, with green hair and green eyes. King Pastoria was the rightful King of Oz until he was removed from power by Mombi. He is the father of Princess Ozma. Princess Ozma is the ruler of Oz since the end of the second book, and she has appeared in every book except the first. Prior to the second book, she had been transformed by the evil Mombi into a young boy named Tip. In many of the books, she is depicted as a fairy princess of fourteen or fifteen years of age, though she was originally portrayed as not a fairy and much younger. She is the title character in Ozma of Oz and The Lost Princess of Oz, and The Road to Oz is about a journey to her birthday party. In Jack Snow's Murder in Oz, Ozma's Tip persona reclaims his life, causing Ozma to die, and the Wizard has to find a way to have both Tip and Ozma alive and well at the same time. The Soldier with the Green Whiskers is Oz's one-man army. He appears in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900) and the many sequel books. He is portrayed as having a very long green beard and carrying an unloaded rifle. He is alternately referred to as Omby Amby or Wantowin Battles. The Wizard of Oz is the title character of the first book. In that book, the characters journey to him for assistance with their problems. It is later revealed that he is a "Humbug" circus performer named Oscar Diggs from Omaha, Nebraska; and that he had usurped Ozma's throne with the assistance of Mombi (though this was later proven false). 