Using the Enchanted Ribbon around his neck, Quox made the Nome King forget his magic and deposed him by using eggs. After the mission was over, Quox returned to his land through the Hollow Tube. Smith and Tinker, introduced in Ozma of Oz, are an inventor and an artist who worked out of a shop in the Land of Ev. They created the clockwork man Tik-Tok and sold him to Evoldo. They also created the Giant with the Hammer. Smith, the artist of the duo, painted a picture of a river that was so real that he fell in and drowned. Tinker, the inventor of the duo, made a ladder so tall that it reached to the Moon. He climbed the ladder to the Moon and once there pulled it up so no one could follow him. Smith and Tinker appear in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz, voiced by JP Karliak and Bill Fagerbakke. These versions are depicted as Munchkin inventors. The Gump is an amalgam of parts with the mounted head of an elk-like creature, first brought to life with the magic Powder of Life in The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904). Wogglebug combined the head with two sofas for a body, palm trees for wings, and a broom for a tail: all tied together with clothesline and ropes. After crashing into a jackdaw's nest, Wogglebug used a Wishing Pill to fix him. After the Land of Oz is retaken by Princess Ozma, the Gump is disassembled at his request leaving him a talking head that is still living in the Royal Palace of Oz. The Gump also appeared in Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz where he meets and talks to Dorothy until Ozma arrives (for some reason, she doesn't like it when he talks). The Gump is a central character in Disney's 1985 live action fantasy film Return to Oz, performed and voiced by Lyle Conway and assisted in the performance by Steve Norrington. Depicted somewhat like a green-furred moose, this Gump is assembled by Tik-Tok, Jack Pumpkinhead, and Billina, with Dorothy Gale applying the Powder of Life. This Gump escapes Mombi and survives the Nome King ordeal. Tik-Tok is a character who appeared in several Oz books, beginning with Ozma of Oz. He is a machine man controlled by clockwork, which needs to be wound regularly. Tik-Tok is often considered the first robot to appear in literature. He also appeared in the film Return to Oz, which starred Fairuza Balk as Dorothy Gale, in which he is a main character. Tititi-Hoochoo, the Great Jinjin and Private Citizen, is a Peculiar Person, who rules an unnamed opposite land on the exact opposite side of the earth from the Land of Oz. Like the other people of that land, all his limbs are of a different color than the others, although he has no heart. The two places are connected by the Forbidden Tube, which was created by Hiergargo the Magician who wanted to save travel time between the two places and whose rash use of the tube destroyed him. He appears in Tik-Tok of Oz. [28]
The Wise Donkey is a character from  A New Wonderland (The Magical Monarch of Mo) (1899/1903) and The Patchwork Girl of Oz (1913). He began life as an ordinary donkey in Phunniland (Mo, a land even stranger and less logical than Oz), but after consuming numerous books, he learned their contents and became a wise advisor to the King. He sometimes acts in his own interests, at least to the extent of making sure his are met when he aids others, such as suggesting an apple for rescuing Nuphsed, which doesn't work, but when he is fed the apple, he gives an answer that does. Somehow, he was able to cross the Deadly Desert that surrounds Oz and he took up residence with the Foolish Owl who originally resided in Munchkin Country. 