At the end of the book, he becomes King of the Beasts in the dark forest in Oz's southern quadrant called Quadling Country, though this is rarely brought up in later Oz books. In the sequels, he appears in minor roles as Ozma's bodyguard and beast of burden, along with the Hungry Tiger. In The Cowardly Lion of Oz, a lion collector named King Mustafa seeks to capture him, while he seeks to restore his courage. The Good Witch of the South is named Glinda, who appears at the end of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). She is the sorceress who rules over the southern quadrant called Quadling Country in the Land of Oz. Her overall character is a figure that many of the other Oz characters consult when in trouble or in need of any assistance. Glinda is described as being highly intelligent, wise and independent. Outwardly, she is very beautiful despite the hundreds of years she has lived and is always honest, kind and gentle to everyone who encounters her. She also is one of the most powerful and respected women in Oz and the official protector of Oz's rightful ruler, the child Queen Princess Ozma. She became the official ruler of the southern quadrant called Quadling Country in the Land of Oz, after she vanquished the Wicked Witch of the South (previous ruler). The Hungry Tiger is a massive Bengal tiger who is friends with the Cowardly Lion. He is always hungry no matter how much he eats and longs to eat a "fat baby," though he never would because his conscience will not allow him to do so. At the banquet in the Emerald City at the end of Ozma of Oz, he acknowledges that he is finally full. The Hungry Tiger was introduced in Ozma of Oz as one of Princess Ozma's chariot drivers (the other being the Cowardly Lion), though Jack Snow and others believe he may be "the biggest of the tigers" in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. In Chapter 18 of The Patchwork Girl of Oz, he is described as "the largest and most powerful of its kind," and having come from the forest where the Cowardly Lion ruled, which could be taken as an indirect statement that he is the same tiger that appeared in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. In "The Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger," one of Baum's Little Wizard Stories of Oz, the title characters go on a misadventure where the Tiger's refusal to eat a fat baby is put to the test. Ruth Plumly Thompson gave the Tiger his own adventure in The Hungry Tiger of Oz (1926). The Hungry Tiger appears in Tom & Jerry: Back to Oz, voiced by Andrea Martin. This version is a female, and has a more anthropomorphic appearance than the literary version. The Hungry Tiger appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz, voiced by Bill Fagerbakke. The King of Bunnybury is a white rabbit who rules Bunnybury as seen in The Emerald City of Oz. As king, he is very unhappy where he is not being allowed to run wild and free like the other rabbits. He is shown to have an attendant named Blinkem, who also first appears in The Emerald City of Oz. King Krewl is an evil dictator who appears in The Scarecrow of Oz. He previously ruled over Jinxland in the Quadling Country before being deposed. In the 1914 film His Majesty, the Scarecrow of Oz, he was played by Raymond Russell. In the 1925 film The Wizard of Oz, he was played by Josef Swickard. The Wicked Witch of the South is a wicked witch that ruled over Quadling Country. She was mentioned in Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz to have been overthrown by Glinda. The book The Wicked Witch of Oz features a variation of the character named Singra. The following characters are associated with the fictional Eastern division of oz called Munchkin Country. The Munchkins are a race of little people who wear blue, they are the first to welcome Dorothy to Oz. Other creatures are shown to live in the county though as well. Boq is a minor character who appears in the beginning of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. 