There he stood for years until he was discovered by the Tin Woodman, the Scarecrow, Woot the Wanderer, and Polychrome the Rainbow's Daughter. Once lubricated and restored to life, Fyter accompanies the group of adventurers on their quest to find Nimmie Amee, intending to fulfill his vow of marriage (although he is willing to give her up if she chooses the Woodman over him). When they finally find her, she is happily married to Chopfyt, the assembled and combined "meat" parts of the two men. Finding Nimmie Amee happily married, they return to the Emerald City where Captain Fyter joins the Royal Army of Oz. Eventually, Ozma sends Fyter to keep order among the wild inhabitants of the unknown areas of the Gillikin Country. Bungle the Glass Cat is a cat made of glass who was brought to life by the "Powder of Life" in The Patchwork Girl of Oz (1913). She is portrayed as vain and aloof, due to the fact that she has clearly visible pink brains and a transparent glass heart. Jinjur is the head of an all female army of revolt. She and her ladies attempt to overthrow the Emerald City and install Jinjur as the ruler of Oz in The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904). She also appears in several other Oz books. The Kalidahs are a fictitious species of animal in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. [12] They are mentioned and featured in the first half of the story when Dorothy Gale and her companions are traveling through the dark forest. A Kalidah is characterized as a ferocious monster having the head of a tiger and the body of a bear. Although two kalidahs are killed in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, Baum had decided by The Magic of Oz that the inhabitants of Oz are immortal, so a kalidah, though pierced through the heart, survives. Other Kalidahs appear in The Magic of Oz, where they bother Trot and Cap'n Bill. In The Patchwork Girl of Oz, Dr. Pipt keeps Kalidahs struck with his Liquid of Petrefaction by the entrance to his house. The creatures play an important part in Eric Shanower's "Gugu and the Kalidahs. "[13] Phyllis Ann Karr's short story "The Guardian Dove," published in the 1990 issue of Oziana, provides a detailed treatment of Kalidah culture. The 1975 stage musical The Wiz includes a musical number "Kalidah Battle," featuring the Kalidah Queen and two of her gang. [14] In the film adaptation of The Wiz, the Kalidahs are two red paper lantern-alike marionettes controlled by the Subway Peddler, the Wicked Witch of the West's henchman. During the attack in the New York City Subway, it's shown that the Kalidahs are able to separate from their strings, become two meters high and chase anyone the Peddler wants. After the Wicked Witch of West is defeated, when her henchmen (the Peddler included) and her slaves turn into Winkies by tearing their costumes and burning them, the Kalidahs may be destroyed in the process. In The Muppets' Wizard of Oz, the Kalidahs are portrayed by Statler and Waldorf. Kiki Aru is a Munchkin from the Hyup community on Mount Munch who appears in The Magic of Oz. He is the son of Bini Aru who learned the transformation magic by saying the magic word "Pyrzqxgl." When Princess Ozma made a decree that limits who can learn magic, Kiki discovered the words and used it to turn into a hawk where he flew to the Land of Ev. After being reprimanded by a sparrow for stealing a coin in the form of a magpie, Kiki was approached by the former Nome King Ruggedo who ropes Kiki into helping him with his plot. Transforming themselves into birds, Kiki and Ruggedo flew to the Land of Oz to avoid being detected by the Great Book of Records. Upon transforming themselves into Li-Mon-Eags (creatures with the head of a lion, the body of a monkey, the wings of an eagle, and the knob-tipped tail of a donkey) who claim to be from Sky Island, Kiki and Ruggedo spread the rumors to the animals of the Forest of Gugu that the humans of Oz plan to harm their forest. This was thwarted by the Wizard who used the magic word to turn Kiki and Ruggedo into different nuts. After being restored to normal, Kiki and Ruggedo were hit with a thirst-inducing magic and drank from the forbidden fountain where they lost their memories and their evil intentions. Ku-Klip is a character who is the originally unnamed tinsmith in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz who provided Nick Chopper with tin prostheses when the latter was cursed to dismember himself by the Wicked Witch of the East because of his love for the servant Nimmie Amee. [15] In The Tin Woodman of Oz, we are introduced to a soldier named Captain Fyter, who met with the same fate due to his interest in Nimmie Amee, and Ku-Klip did the same for him. After the witch was destroyed by Dorothy Gale's house, Ku-Klip entered the witch's house and took some of her magical devices, including a magic glue. 