The Wicked Witch of the South is a wicked witch that ruled over Quadling Country. She was mentioned in Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz to have been overthrown by Glinda. The book The Wicked Witch of Oz features a variation of the character named Singra. The following characters are associated with the fictional Eastern division of oz called Munchkin Country. The Munchkins are a race of little people who wear blue, they are the first to welcome Dorothy to Oz. Other creatures are shown to live in the county though as well. Boq is a minor character who appears in the beginning of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. He is depicted as a wealthy Munchkin man with a large family who offers Dorothy Gale and Toto shelter after throwing a lavish banquet in Dorothy's honor upon her arrival to the Land of Oz. Boq plays a much larger role in the Wicked books and the successful Broadway musical of the same name. In Wicked, Boq is a Munchkin who attends Shiz University with Elphaba and Galinda. In the musical adaptation of Wicked (but not in Baum's or Gregory Maguire's books), Boq becomes the Tin Woodman. Dr. Pipt is sometimes called " The Crooked Magician." He first appears in The Patchwork Girl of Oz. He is so crooked that his legs are nearly as handy as his arms. When he sits, one knee is under his chin and the other behind his back. Dr. Pipt lives in the Munchkin Country with his wife Margolotte. He is notable for creating the Patchwork Girl (who was created by Dr. Pipt's wife, Margolotte) and the Glass Cat. [11]
Dr. Pipt also invented the Powder of Life. Although in The Marvelous Land of Oz, has this invention credited to another crooked magician named Dr. Nikidik from the Gillikin Country. In an article in the Spring 1965 issue of The Baum Bugle, Lee Speth argues that Nikidik faked his death in the earlier book, to assume a new identity as Pipt. He was deprived of his magic abilities by Glinda for doing magic without a permit. Glinda also straightened his crooked limbs. In The Lost Princess of Oz, Dr. Pipt assists Ojo and Unc Nunkie in a search party that is organized to find Princess Ozma. Dr. Pipt appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz voiced by JP Karliak. The Foolish Owl is a great blue owl that lives in Munchkin Country and speaks in nonsense poetry. She and the Wise Donkey serve as public advisors. She first appears in The Patchwork Girl of Oz where Patchwork Girl, Ojo, and Glass Cat stop by the office of the Foolish Owl and the Wise Donkey where they knew about their current mission. Captain Fyter the Tin Soldier is a character who is first introduced in The Tin Woodman of Oz. After the Tin Woodman left his beloved Nimmie Amee after losing his heart (as he felt he could not love her), Fyter, a member of the Munchkin army, met and fell in love with her when he found her crying over her lost love. Unfortunately, she was a ward to the Wicked Witch of the East, who made Fyter's sword do what the Woodman's axe did and cut off his limbs, which Ku-Klip the tin smith replaced with tin limbs (although Fyter is not bothered by his lack of a heart). Nimmie Amee agreed to marry him, but on the day of their wedding, a storm rose up, and the rain rusted Fyter so badly that he was frozen in place along a little used forest path. There he stood for years until he was discovered by the Tin Woodman, the Scarecrow, Woot the Wanderer, and Polychrome the Rainbow's Daughter. Once lubricated and restored to life, Fyter accompanies the group of adventurers on their quest to find Nimmie Amee, intending to fulfill his vow of marriage (although he is willing to give her up if she chooses the Woodman over him). When they finally find her, she is happily married to Chopfyt, the assembled and combined "meat" parts of the two men. 