In Jack Pumpkinhead of Oz, he was the first person captured in Mogodore's invasion when he attempted to warn the others of his arrival. The Wicked Witch of the East is a character who is crushed by Dorothy's house in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). Prior to this, she ruled over the Munchkins and had possession of the magical Silver Shoes (Ruby Slippers in the 1939 musical) that made it possible for her to conquer the Munchkin Country in the undiscovered Land of Oz. She appears in the book Wicked under the name Nessarose by Gregory Maguire. The Woozy is a four-legged fictional creature from the pages of The Patchwork Girl of Oz. [19] It is described as being dark blue in color and made up of all squares, flat surfaces and edges. Its head is an exact cube and its body is in the shape of a box twice as long as it is wide and high. All four of the Woozy's legs are four-sided, as is its stubby tail. The Woozy hears via two openings in the upper corners of its head, has a flat nose and a mouth formed by an opening on the lower edge of its head. When the Woozy gets angry, it has the ability to flash fire with its eyes. The Woozy lives in the Munchkin country in Oz and survives primarily on a diet of honey bees. The Munchkin farmers who raise the honey bees nearby drive the Woozy into the forest and confine it with a fence. Since the Woozy cannot climb, he cannot escape his prison. The Woozy does mention in the text that he can jump very high, but also mentions that he has a ferocious roar, which turns out to be completely untrue. The creature is entirely hairless except for three stiff, stubby hairs on the end of its tail. Those three hairs were one of five required ingredients for the antidote to the Liquid of Petrification that Ojo, Scraps the Patchwork Girl, and Bungle set out to retrieve in the story. In return for some scraps of bread and cheese that Ojo feeds him, the Woozy agrees to give his hairs to the party. When it becomes clear that the hairs cannot be removed from his tail, Ojo frees the Woozy and allows the creature to accompany the group. The Woozy appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz voiced by JP Karliak. In this show, the Woozy is a large furry creature. He only shoots beams from his eyes when he hears whispers which he hates. The following characters are associated with the fictional Western division of oz called Winkie Country. Cayke (or Cayke the Cookie Cook as she is also called) is a character who appears in the book The Lost Princess of Oz (1917). [20] She is a Yip, a resident of a remote plateau in Oz who is noted for the delicious cookies she bakes in her diamond-studded gold dishpan. Cayke knows that the dishpan has magic powers; she admits to the Frogman that without it she is a poor cook, and her cookies are "pretty poor stuff and no better than any woman could make who does not own [her] diamond-studded gold dishpan." However, she has no idea that her magic dishpan can carry its occupants anywhere they desire to go. Ugu the shoemaker steals Cayke's dishpan and uses it to kidnap Ozma and steal all the magic in the Land of Oz. When Cayke discovers her dishpan has gone missing, she is greatly distressed, and causes quite a fuss by wailing and screaming. After the Frogman, who is thought to be extremely wise by all of the Yips, tells her that the dishpan has been stolen by someone outside of the country of the Yips, she leaves the plateau where the Yips live and travels the general land of Oz to find it. This trip makes her the first Yip to leave the plateau. 