Eureka is a white kitten who is introduced in Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz. [4] She is found by Uncle Henry who gives her the name Eureka, which means "I have found it!" Henry then gives the cat to his niece Dorothy making the cat her pet. Dorothy carries Eureka in a small birdcage on a train with her to San Francisco to visit her relatives on Hugson farm. While riding with Bill Hugson's nephew Zeb, an earthquake opens a large chasm in the ground, and Eureka falls with Dorothy, Zeb, and Jim the Cab-Horse into the land of the Mangaboos, people made of vegetable. The strange lights in the Mangaboos' cavern create all sorts of odd colors, and Eureka looks pink there. Eureka is then referred to as a "pink kitten," or sometimes, as in Glinda of Oz, as a "purple kitten." The last third of Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz presents her as dishonest, and she is placed on trial for having eaten the smallest of the Nine Tiny Piglets, which was given to Princess Ozma as a pet. Eureka is threatened with execution until the piglet is finally found. Although Eureka ultimately tells them where the piglet is, she is amused at being tried for something that is in her nature to attempt. Eureka returns with Dorothy to Kansas, but is later found living in Oz with no explanation of how she returned. Eureka may be conniving and deceitful, but overall she has a good heart. Eureka plays a significant supporting role in Dick Martin's 1986 novel The Ozmapolitan of Oz, and she is the heroine of Chris Dulabone's The Colorful Kitten of Oz (1990) which, among other things, addresses the inconsistency of Eureka's color. Eureka appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz voiced by Kari Wahlgren. She is a resident of Purrville who becomes friends with the Cowardly Lion. Toto is Dorothy's pet dog, and he appears in most of the same books as Dorothy, beginning with The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. Due to his appearance in the 1939 film, he has often been ranked near the top of list of on-screen canine characters. The Shaggy Man is a kind old wanderer who is dressed in rags. He has a chivalrous instinct to protect children from monsters. He first appears in The Road to Oz as Dorothy's protector, and plays major roles in The Patchwork Girl of Oz and Tik-Tok of Oz. He is similar to Captain Bill Weedles, another "fatherly protector" character. Ruth Plumly Thompson and John R. Neill largely ignored the Shaggy Man and Captain Bill, giving the "fatherly protector" role to new characters, including Sir Hokus of Pokes, in many stories. Jack Snow restored the Shaggy Man's place and gave him a lead role in The Shaggy Man of Oz in 1949. The Shaggy Man has an unnamed brother who is simply dubbed Shaggy Man's Brother. His name is given in the play The Tik-Tok Man of Oz as Wiggy. He was a gold miner in Colorado until he ended up in the Nome Kingdom and was taken prisoner by the Nome King who imprisoned him in the Metal Forest. After finding out about his brother's plight 10 years later, Shaggy Man led some of his friends to the Nome Kingdom to rescue him. Afterwards, Princess Ozma allowed him to live in the Land of Oz. He appears to be less adventurous than his brother, as his subsequent appearances are limited to cameos in crowd scenes. Mayre "Trot" Griffiths is a young girl who comes to Oz in The Scarecrow of Oz, along with her friend Cap'n Bill, and becomes a friend and companion of Dorothy, Ozma and Betsy. She is also the protagonist of The Sea Fairies and Sky Island. She appears in the second season of Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz, voiced by Kari Wahlgren. Zebediah Hugson is a boy who is a distant cousin of Dorothy Gale, apparently related through Dorothy's Aunt Em. He works for his uncle, Bill Hugson, at Hugson's Ranch in California, where he also lives. Zeb appears in Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz (1908). Zeb first meets Dorothy at Hugson's Siding, when he picks her up in a carriage pulled by Jim the Cab-horse. On their way to the Hugson's Ranch, an earthquake causes everyone to fall into the earth and into the Land of the Mangaboos. Zeb, Dorothy, Jim, and Dorothy's kitten Eureka are soon joined by Oscar Diggs aka the Wizard of Oz. The travelers undertake a subterranean journey through the Valley of Voe, are briefly imprisoned in the Land of Naught, and encounter a cavern full of Dragonettes. Despite his reservations about being in a strange land, Zeb courageously defends his friends and helps them escape from the Land of Gargoyles by obtaining pairs of gargoyle wings. 