The travelers undertake a subterranean journey through the Valley of Voe, are briefly imprisoned in the Land of Naught, and encounter a cavern full of Dragonettes. Despite his reservations about being in a strange land, Zeb courageously defends his friends and helps them escape from the Land of Gargoyles by obtaining pairs of gargoyle wings. After Ozma uses the Magic Belt to bring them to the Land of Oz, Zeb is welcomed as an honoured guest in the Emerald City. During the festivities held to celebrate the arrival of Dorothy and her friends, Zeb participates in a wrestling match with a Munchkin boy, which he loses, and then a boxing match, which Zeb wins. He later serves as one of the nine members of the jury during the trial of Eureka. While the Wizard accepts Ozma's invitation to remain in Oz, Dorothy, Zeb, and their animals decide to return home. Though Zeb remarks that Oz is a nice country, he admits that he and Jim feel out of place in a fairy country and wishes to return to Hugson's Ranch with Jim. Zeb's last evening in Oz is described as being so wonderful, he never forgot it as long as he lived. In The Oz Kids, he somehow came back to Oz and married Dorothy. The couple had two children named Dot and Neddie Hugson. The following characters are associated with the central portion of Oz known as the Emerald City. The Guardian of the Gates is a character in several of the Oz books. He is never known by any other name, but he is depicted as a singular character who lives in a small room, based on its description significantly larger than a standard guardhouse, in the wall that surrounds the Emerald City. In The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900) and The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904), his job is to adorn green spectacle glasses around the heads of all visitors to the Emerald City before they enter. It is claimed that this is done to protect their eyes from the thousands of glittering green gems within the city that are so precious and rare, they would cause blindness without the spectacles. In fact Oz is "no more green than any other city" and it is yet another "humbug" created by the Wizard. [5]  The glasses can only be unlocked by a solid gold key that the Guardian always wears on a thick gold chain around his neck. After The Marvelous Land of Oz he abandoned the practice, for General Jinjur's Army of Revolt and Tippetarius had all entered the city without damage to their eyes. The Guardian of the Gates appears only occasionally after this book, and his duty becomes significantly lighter. In The Patchwork Girl of Oz (1913) when Ojo the Lucky reaches the city, he and his companions are taken into the Guardian's room, where the Soldier with the Green Whiskers tells the Guardian of the Gates that he has a note from Ozma that Ojo is to be taken prisoner. So the Guardian of the Gates removes the traditional prison garb, a white robe that completely covers the prisoner, from a closet and places it on Ojo and leaves the Soldier with the Green Whiskers in charge of him. In John R. Neill's Oz books, the Guardian of the Gates and the Soldier with the Green Whiskers are frequently shown as friends, but the subsequent books of Jack Snow give the duty to Omby Amby (the Soldier's name), and there is no entry for the Guardian of the Gates in Snow's Who's Who in Oz. In Neill's The Scalawagons of Oz, the Guardian mentions a desire to visit his cousin, Oompa, which may explain, in-universe, why Omby Amby is fulfilling that function while the other man was on vacation. Further confusion is created in the MGM movie, in which both roles are played by Frank Morgan, and publicity referred to the Guardian's equivalent as "the Doorman" and the Soldier's equivalent as "the Guard". No other Guardian of the Gates is described in any of Baum's books, aside from a stout woman who takes over the function during Jinjur's rule. In The Marvelous Land of Oz musical, in which the role was originated by Steve Huke, the Guardian is conflated with the man interviewed doing housework, and he also claims to have a wife and ten children, a claim not made by anyone in the book. The Guardian of the Gates had his own eponymous song, written in bass clef, in The Wizard of Oz musical extravaganza, by Baum and composer Paul Tietjens, but it was cut after only two performances and never made it to Broadway, although the sheet music was published for consumer use. In the 1939 adaption of The Wizard of Oz, the Guardian of the Gates appears as the "Gatekeeper" portrayed by Frank Morgan (who also portrays Professor Marvelous, the Wizard of Oz, the Emerald City Coachman, and the Guard). When Dorothy, Toto, Scarecrow, Tin Man, and Cowardly Lion reach the Emerald City, they ring on the bell which alerted the Gatekeeper. When he notices that there is no sign near the bell and puts it up before closing the door's window where it says "Bell out of order. Please knock." They knock which pleases the Gatekeeper and were able to persuade him into letting them go to the Wizard by showing the Ruby Slippers that Dorothy has. The Gatekeeper lets them into the Emerald City. Many film and television adaptations conflate Omby Amby and the Gatekeeper for convenience. 