Mombi first appears The Marvelous Land of Oz, when Tip escapes her power. Later in the series, L. Frank Baum specified that she had once conquered and ruled the Gillikin Country as the Wicked Witch of the North only to be deposed by Locasta, the Good Witch of the North. It is revealed that she helped install the Wizard as ruler of Oz. In The Lost King of Oz, she is a primary antagonist. In a similar fate to her predecessor, the Wicked Witch of the West, Mombi is melted by water, but in Lucky Bucky in Oz she is accidentally resurrected by Jack Pumpkinhead and becomes a secondary antagonist. Mr. Yoop is a giant from The Patchwork Girl of Oz. He is a 21 ft. giant with a ravenous appetite for meat people and an orange marmalade. Mr. Yoop ate cows and sheep and sometimes knocked over people's houses which led to him being apprehended and imprisoned in a mountain cave making him the largest untamed giant in captivity. Since his imprisonment, he has only eaten six ants and a monkey. He threatens passers-by: "They tell me meat is going up, but if I can manage to catch you, I'm sure it will soon be going down." The book The Tin Woodman of Oz revealed that he is the estranged husband of Mrs. Yoop and has been abusive towards her. In the comic series Fables, Mr. Yoop was freed by Nome King following his takeover of the Land of Oz. The Nome King feeds his enemies to Mr. Yoop. Mr. Yoop eventually got tired of his job as the Nome King's "people eater", feeling that he could not keep up with the large number of people being fed to him every day. He was sent out to capture Bufkin, Jack Pumpkinhead, Bungle the Glass Cat and the Sawhorse, but decided to become among the characters to join their revolution instead. Mrs. Yoop is a wicked giantess and sorceress in The Tin Woodman of Oz. When she meets the Tin Woodman and his companions, she changes them into animal forms. She transforms Polychrome into a canary, the Tin Woodman into a tin owl, the Scarecrow into a stuffed brown bear, and Woot the Wanderer into a green monkey. She is the estranged wife of the imprisoned Mr. Yoop from The Patchwork Girl of Oz, who has been imprisoned for eating people. Unlike him, Mrs. Yoop is not a cannibal; she obtains food by means of her magical powers. The Green Monkey Spell proves irreversible and has to be transferred to somebody else. In this case Mrs. Yoop who becomes, and must now stay, a green monkey. She is a Yookoohoo, a special kind of witch, "an Artist of Transformations" whose enchantments are extremely powerful. The other Yookoohoo in the Oz books is Red Reera in Glinda of Oz. Both Yookoohoos are specialists in magical transformations and are solitary, anti-social, and fiercely independent The Tin Woodman of Oz is a rarity in Baum's Oz canon, in that the author's manuscript of the book exists, and reveals the changes that Baum made for the printed version. [7] Baum revised his original to make Mrs. Yoop more sinister; and he originally called Mrs. Yoop a "Whisp" (an otherwise unknown term in the universe of Oz)[8] rather than a Yookoohoo. [9]
The Sawhorse, spelled "saw-horse" in some of the books, is a character from L. Frank Baum's Oz books series. [10] He first appears in The Marvelous Land of Oz. The Sawhorse is a wooden carpenter's sawhorse brought to life with the Powder of Life by Tip to carry Jack Pumpkinhead (whose wooden joints were wearing out from walking). He is a log with a notch cut in one end for a mouth, two knots for eyes and a branch for a tail. When he was first made he had no ears and could not follow directions, so Tip corrected that by carving him some ears from tree bark. He also had a post installed on his back so Jack could hold on while riding. His friends deride him as the least intelligent member of their party, though he usually has intelligent things to say when he speaks. The sawhorse is one of the fastest creatures in Oz because he never gets tired. 