It originally belonged to Dr. Pipt, until it was inadvertently brought to life when it was accidentally sprinkled with the Powder of Life. The Phonograph has a large gold-colored horn, and is screwed to a tall, four-legged table, which it uses for movement. Once alive, it continued to bother the magician by playing loud and offensive "classical" music until it was at last forced from his home. It then tried to endear itself to the young Munchkin boy Ojo and his friends in much the same way (first with classical, then jazz), but was finally scared off by the Shaggy Man, who threatened to "scatter its pieces across the country, as a matter of kindness to the people of Oz." The Phonograph has never been seen since. The Phonograph's name is Victor Columbia Edison, but was dubbed Vic for short, by the Patchwork Girl. The Queen of the Field Mice is a gray mouse who rules the field mice of the Land of Oz. She was first seen in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz being chased by a wildcat until it was slain by the Tin Woodman. After introducing herself to Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, the Queen of the Field Mice called upon her subjects to help get the Cowardly Lion out of the deadly poppy field. Afterwards, the Queen of the Field Mice informs Dorothy of the Golden Cap that can summon and command the winged monkeys. In The Marvelous Land of Oz, the Queen of the Field Mice sends some of her subjects to help Scarecrow when he is overthrown from his position as the ruler of the Emerald City. The Queen of the Field Mice appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz. She is given the name Marie, and speaks with a French accent. According to The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904), the Woggle-Bug was once a regular tiny woggle-bug, about the size of a pea. He lived the life of a normal insect until he crawled into a country schoolhouse (presumably somewhere in the Winkie Country of the Land of Oz) and listened to the lessons and lectures the famous Professor Nowitall gave his pupils for about three years. One day, the teacher found and caught him, and decided to use him for an impromptu lesson on woggle-bugs. Nowitall put the bug under a microscope and projected his highly magnified image onto a screen with advanced technology. The bug was proud of his new size; he bowed to the students, and one unnamed little girl standing on the windowsill was startled and fell backward out of the window. While everyone rushed outside to see if she was all right, the Woggle-bug secretly jumped off the screen and ran away. He has remained magnified ever since. He goes by the name H. M. Woggle-Bug, T.E. (Highly Magnified and Thoroughly Educated). In later books, the hyphen was sometimes dropped: "Wogglebug". In illustrations, he is often depicted wearing bright colors and several pairs of glasses on his elongated proboscis. Tommy Kwikstep is a Munchkin who first appears in The Tin Woodman of Oz. When running an errand for a witch in exchange for a wish, Tommy got exhausted and without thinking wished that he had 20 legs where he was transformed into a Munchkin with 20 legs. To accommodate his transformed state, Tommy lived in a log with two entrances for him to go in and out of. As the additional legs did make him faster, Tommy has searched all of the Land of Oz for the witch in question while getting corns on his feet. He was restored to normal by Polychrome who also heals his feet of the corns. Tommy vows not to speak without carefully considering what will be said again. 