In illustrations, he is often depicted wearing bright colors and several pairs of glasses on his elongated proboscis. Tommy Kwikstep is a Munchkin who first appears in The Tin Woodman of Oz. When running an errand for a witch in exchange for a wish, Tommy got exhausted and without thinking wished that he had 20 legs where he was transformed into a Munchkin with 20 legs. To accommodate his transformed state, Tommy lived in a log with two entrances for him to go in and out of. As the additional legs did make him faster, Tommy has searched all of the Land of Oz for the witch in question while getting corns on his feet. He was restored to normal by Polychrome who also heals his feet of the corns. Tommy vows not to speak without carefully considering what will be said again. In The Lost Tales of Oz, Tommy Kwikstep starred in the story "Tommy Kwikstep and the Magpie." Tommy Kwikstep appears in Return to Oz. This version is depicted with six legs. He is seen in the background at the coronation of Princess Ozma. Tommy Kwikstep appears in The Oz Kids episode "Christmas in Oz." Unc Nunkie is a character from the fictional Oz book series by L. Frank Baum. [18] He first appeared in The Patchwork Girl of Oz. Unc Nunkie is an elderly Munchkin who lived with his nephew Ojo the Lucky in the forests in Munchkin Country. Unc Nunkie was known for speaking primarily in one-word, monosyllabic sentences, though he very occasionally made a "long" speech using two words. Locals attributed his laconic nature to concealment of royal blood. Unc Nunkie was accidentally turned to stone by Dr. Pipt's Liquid of Petrification, resulting in his nephew Ojo going on a quest to find the ingredients needed for the antidote. Ruth Plumly Thompson explored the "royal blood" thread in Ojo in Oz. In Jack Pumpkinhead of Oz, he was the first person captured in Mogodore's invasion when he attempted to warn the others of his arrival. The Wicked Witch of the East is a character who is crushed by Dorothy's house in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). Prior to this, she ruled over the Munchkins and had possession of the magical Silver Shoes (Ruby Slippers in the 1939 musical) that made it possible for her to conquer the Munchkin Country in the undiscovered Land of Oz. She appears in the book Wicked under the name Nessarose by Gregory Maguire. The Woozy is a four-legged fictional creature from the pages of The Patchwork Girl of Oz. [19] It is described as being dark blue in color and made up of all squares, flat surfaces and edges. Its head is an exact cube and its body is in the shape of a box twice as long as it is wide and high. All four of the Woozy's legs are four-sided, as is its stubby tail. The Woozy hears via two openings in the upper corners of its head, has a flat nose and a mouth formed by an opening on the lower edge of its head. When the Woozy gets angry, it has the ability to flash fire with its eyes. The Woozy lives in the Munchkin country in Oz and survives primarily on a diet of honey bees. 