This version is depicted with six legs. He is seen in the background at the coronation of Princess Ozma. Tommy Kwikstep appears in The Oz Kids episode "Christmas in Oz." Unc Nunkie is a character from the fictional Oz book series by L. Frank Baum. [18] He first appeared in The Patchwork Girl of Oz. Unc Nunkie is an elderly Munchkin who lived with his nephew Ojo the Lucky in the forests in Munchkin Country. Unc Nunkie was known for speaking primarily in one-word, monosyllabic sentences, though he very occasionally made a "long" speech using two words. Locals attributed his laconic nature to concealment of royal blood. Unc Nunkie was accidentally turned to stone by Dr. Pipt's Liquid of Petrification, resulting in his nephew Ojo going on a quest to find the ingredients needed for the antidote. Ruth Plumly Thompson explored the "royal blood" thread in Ojo in Oz. In Jack Pumpkinhead of Oz, he was the first person captured in Mogodore's invasion when he attempted to warn the others of his arrival. The Wicked Witch of the East is a character who is crushed by Dorothy's house in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). Prior to this, she ruled over the Munchkins and had possession of the magical Silver Shoes (Ruby Slippers in the 1939 musical) that made it possible for her to conquer the Munchkin Country in the undiscovered Land of Oz. She appears in the book Wicked under the name Nessarose by Gregory Maguire. The Woozy is a four-legged fictional creature from the pages of The Patchwork Girl of Oz. [19] It is described as being dark blue in color and made up of all squares, flat surfaces and edges. Its head is an exact cube and its body is in the shape of a box twice as long as it is wide and high. All four of the Woozy's legs are four-sided, as is its stubby tail. The Woozy hears via two openings in the upper corners of its head, has a flat nose and a mouth formed by an opening on the lower edge of its head. When the Woozy gets angry, it has the ability to flash fire with its eyes. The Woozy lives in the Munchkin country in Oz and survives primarily on a diet of honey bees. The Munchkin farmers who raise the honey bees nearby drive the Woozy into the forest and confine it with a fence. Since the Woozy cannot climb, he cannot escape his prison. The Woozy does mention in the text that he can jump very high, but also mentions that he has a ferocious roar, which turns out to be completely untrue. The creature is entirely hairless except for three stiff, stubby hairs on the end of its tail. Those three hairs were one of five required ingredients for the antidote to the Liquid of Petrification that Ojo, Scraps the Patchwork Girl, and Bungle set out to retrieve in the story. In return for some scraps of bread and cheese that Ojo feeds him, the Woozy agrees to give his hairs to the party. When it becomes clear that the hairs cannot be removed from his tail, Ojo frees the Woozy and allows the creature to accompany the group. The Woozy appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz voiced by JP Karliak. In this show, the Woozy is a large furry creature. 