Kaliko become king after old Ruggedo (whose name was changed from Roquat) was expelled from his kingdom by the Great Jinjin Tititihoochoo for tipping some members of a Rescue Expedition from Oz down a Hollow Tube and straight into the Land of the Fairies, which is under the governorship of Tititihoochoo. Kaliko promises to become a good king and offers to assist in rescuing the Shaggy Man's brother. Ruggedo returns to the Nome Kingdom, and Kaliko takes him in upon Ruggedo's promise to be good. Kaliko has a brief role in Rinkitink in Oz, where he helps the cruel King Gos and Queen Cor hide the captive rulers of Pingaree from their "wizard" son Prince Inga and his friend Rinkitink of Gilgad. Kaliko is essentially a good-natured person still, but refuses to surrender the prisoners upon Inga's arrival as he feels himself bound to his promise made to Gos and Cor. However, Dorothy and the Wizard arrive from Oz and force Kaliko to give up the prisoners. Kaliko makes some more appearances in the later Oz books of Ruth Plumly Thompson, where he appears to have changed from a "good" Nome into a cruel Nome who harbors plans to rule Oz for himself, and adds himself to the list of Princess Ozma's enemies. He, like all other Nomes, is afraid of eggs; and once he becomes king, he is a self-confessed "powerful sorcerer." The King of the Fairy Beavers appears in Baum's John Dough and the Cherub and reappears in Jack Snow's The Shaggy Man of Oz. The King of the Fairy Beavers rules an underground kingdom. In both books, he helps the travelers to reach their final destination. The Nome King (also referred to as Roquat, and later Ruggedo) is the evil and humorously stubborn ruler of an underground kingdom inhabited by the race of gnome minions, creatures who are half human and half rock. His mountain stands between the Land of Oz and the Land of Ev and is separated from both these two countries by the vast Deadly Desert. He appears in Ozma of Oz and several of the sequel Oz books. His evil plans usually involve kidnapping the rulers of Oz or taking over the universe. Even after he is deposed and defeated in Tik-Tok of Oz, he continues to make trouble for the inhabitants of Oz and all the Ozians in general. After a number of attempts on Oz's peace and happiness, he meets his final canonical fate in Handy Mandy in Oz. Princess Langwidere (a pun on the term "languid air", as enabled by her wealthy status and lazy carefree manner) appears in Baum's third Oz book Ozma of Oz (1907) as a secondary villain. She is the vain and spoiled princess whom Dorothy and her company encounter when she visits the Land of Ev which neighbors Oz. Langwidere has a collection of 30 exchangeable heads she keeps in a cabinet constructed of solid gold and studded with gems. The cabinet itself is held within a walk-in closet in the boudoir of Langwidere's palace. Each head is said to be extremely beautiful, consisting of different bone structures that represent different ethnicities and are kept in their own separate cases lined with mirrors that Langwidere keeps locked with a ruby key she wears around her left wrist. Instead of changing her clothing like most princesses, she simply changes her heads to match her current state of mood whenever she pleases. She is portrayed as being a very reclusive and selfish creature, with a terrible temper when she wears Head #17. Langwidere has a meek-natured dutiful maid named Nanda. Upon spotting Nanda going about her duties around the castle, the Hungry Tiger regards her as exceptionally tasty-looking and eagerly requests her permission to eat her; being denied this privilege, he instead asks Nanda to whip up a sumptuous beef-and-potatoes feast for him, which she shakily agrees to, as her doing so will mean that she will both escape undevoured and temporarily take the edge off the Tiger's voracious appetite. In Return to Oz, elements of Princess Langwidere were combined with the witch Mombi and is named Princess Mombi instead. She is an ally of the Nome King. Princess Langwidere appears in the 2011 film Dorothy and the Witches of Oz portrayed by Mia Sara. Sasha Jackson (Ilsa Lang), Jessica Sonneborn (Ev Locast), and Elizabeth Masucci (Jennifer Mombi) play some of the heads of Princess Langwidere in the film where Ilse Lang is a Hollywood actress, Ev Locast being one of Princess Langwidere's heads, and Jennifer Mombi being a woman whose head is claimed by Princess Langwidere. 