In Return to Oz, elements of Princess Langwidere were combined with the witch Mombi and is named Princess Mombi instead. She is an ally of the Nome King. Princess Langwidere appears in the 2011 film Dorothy and the Witches of Oz portrayed by Mia Sara. Sasha Jackson (Ilsa Lang), Jessica Sonneborn (Ev Locast), and Elizabeth Masucci (Jennifer Mombi) play some of the heads of Princess Langwidere in the film where Ilse Lang is a Hollywood actress, Ev Locast being one of Princess Langwidere's heads, and Jennifer Mombi being a woman whose head is claimed by Princess Langwidere. In this film, Princess Langwidere is depicted as one of the allies of the Wicked Witch of the West. While looking for the key that will grant the Wicked Witch of the West the access to the "Changing Word" in the Book of Bini Aru, Princess Langwidere is served by Frick and Frack Muckadoo and an unidentified creature that assumes the form of Ilsa Lang's assistant Simon. In the final battle, Princess Langwidere is defeated by Glinda. Princess Langwidere also appears as a recurring character in Emerald City portrayed by Stefanie Martini. She appears as the main antagonist in Lost in Oz voiced by Gina Gershon. This version is depicted as the evil aunt of West, most likely based loosely on the Wicked Witch of the East. Queen Coo-ee-oh was the Queen of the Skeezers in Glinda of Oz. [27] Shortly after she is introduced, as an arrogant girl of about fifteen or sixteen, who proclaims herself the only Krumbic witch in the world, for she invented the art, the Su Dic of the Flatheads attacks her island kingdom, and she leads the defense aboard a submarine that opens into a boat. There a bucket of enchanted water is dumped upon her, and she becomes a vain, diamond-eyed swan with no memory of her magical abilities. Her sudden transformation leaves her domed city stranded beneath the waters of the lake, as only she knew the spell. The Krumbic witchcraft proves to be a hybrid of dark arts mixed with magic learned from the Three Adepts at Magic who used to rule the Flatheads, while the three magic spells to operating the city are identified as the parts of her name. Quox is a dragon with an electric light attached to his tail who is a descendant of the Original Dragon and first appeared in Tik-Tok of Oz. When Quox called the Original Dragon senile, Tititi-Hoochoo used him as an instrument against the Nome King where he strapped some seats to Quox and him carry Betsy Bobbin, Private Jo Files, Hank the Mule, Polychrome, Shaggy Man, Tik-Tok, Queen Ann Soforth, and her army through a Hollow Tube that goes from Tititi-Hoochoo's fairyland to the Nome Kingdom. Using the Enchanted Ribbon around his neck, Quox made the Nome King forget his magic and deposed him by using eggs. After the mission was over, Quox returned to his land through the Hollow Tube. Smith and Tinker, introduced in Ozma of Oz, are an inventor and an artist who worked out of a shop in the Land of Ev. They created the clockwork man Tik-Tok and sold him to Evoldo. They also created the Giant with the Hammer. Smith, the artist of the duo, painted a picture of a river that was so real that he fell in and drowned. Tinker, the inventor of the duo, made a ladder so tall that it reached to the Moon. He climbed the ladder to the Moon and once there pulled it up so no one could follow him. Smith and Tinker appear in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz, voiced by JP Karliak and Bill Fagerbakke. These versions are depicted as Munchkin inventors. The Gump is an amalgam of parts with the mounted head of an elk-like creature, first brought to life with the magic Powder of Life in The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904). Wogglebug combined the head with two sofas for a body, palm trees for wings, and a broom for a tail: all tied together with clothesline and ropes. After crashing into a jackdaw's nest, Wogglebug used a Wishing Pill to fix him. 