The Good Witch of the North is named Locasta—Tattypoo. She appears in the beginning of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). She is the first witch Dorothy Gale encounters upon her unexpected arrival to the Land of Oz. She is the official ruler of Oz's northern quadrant called Gillikin Country but is a very dear friend to the Munchkins. She is described as being very old in appearance and has a jolly and humble personality. She wears a magic white hat that can transform into a magic chalkboard, which she can consult for advice. After Dorothy's farmhouse landed in Munchkin Country and killed the Wicked Witch of the East, the Good Witch of the North gives Dorothy the dead witch's charmed Silver Shoes and kisses her on the forehead for protection while on her journey. She is mentioned in the book The Road to Oz (1909), but does not physically feature again until The Giant Horse of Oz (1928). Gugu is an enormous leopard that rules the Forest of Gugu in Gillikin Country. He rules it wisely and responsibly. In "The Magic of Oz," Gugu was transformed into a fat Gillikin woman when Ruggedo and Kiki Aru in the form of the Li-Mon-Eags trick the inhabitants into thinking that the Emerald City wants to conquer the Forest of Gugu. When Kiki Aru and Ruggedo are defeated, Gugu is restored to normal by the Wizard of Oz. In Eric Shanower's non-canon story Gugu and the Kalidahs, Gugu and his fellow inhabitants had to work to fight off renegade Kalidahs from the neighboring area. Gugu has a bear named Bru, a unicorn named Loo, and a gray ape named Rango as his councilors. The Lonesome Duck is a character in The Magic of Oz; he makes brief but gaudy appearances in two of the book's later chapters. [6]
The Lonesome Duck first appears when Cap'n Bill and Trot are trapped on the Magic Isle in the Gillikin Country. He swims "swiftly and gracefully" over to them, astonishing them with his "gorgeously colored plumage". In a brief conversation, the Duck explains why he is lonesome. Though he cannot help free the two protagonists from their entrapment, he makes it slightly easier to bear, by conjuring large magic toadstools for them to sit on. Later, the rescue party searching for Trot and Cap'n Bill almost stumbles over the Lonesome Duck's diamond palace, earning them a stern rebuke from its inhabitant. The text never specifies the Duck's gender; the creature is consistently referred to as "it." Yet the general rule among birds is that the males are gaudier than the females. Mombi is one of the series' major antagonists. The character was originally presented as a lowly hag who had enchanted Princess Ozma in order to prevent her from ascending to the throne. Mombi first appears The Marvelous Land of Oz, when Tip escapes her power. Later in the series, L. Frank Baum specified that she had once conquered and ruled the Gillikin Country as the Wicked Witch of the North only to be deposed by Locasta, the Good Witch of the North. It is revealed that she helped install the Wizard as ruler of Oz. In The Lost King of Oz, she is a primary antagonist. In a similar fate to her predecessor, the Wicked Witch of the West, Mombi is melted by water, but in Lucky Bucky in Oz she is accidentally resurrected by Jack Pumpkinhead and becomes a secondary antagonist. Mr. Yoop is a giant from The Patchwork Girl of Oz. He is a 21 ft. giant with a ravenous appetite for meat people and an orange marmalade. Mr. Yoop ate cows and sheep and sometimes knocked over people's houses which led to him being apprehended and imprisoned in a mountain cave making him the largest untamed giant in captivity. Since his imprisonment, he has only eaten six ants and a monkey. He threatens passers-by: "They tell me meat is going up, but if I can manage to catch you, I'm sure it will soon be going down." 