Nimmie Amee was aware of the spell, which occurred gradually, and was not bothered by his condition and still wished to marry him, but he lost interest when he lost his heart (In Wizard, he lost his heart after his head; in Tin Woodman, he lost his head last and the Witch ran around with it in her arms). Soon a soldier named Captain Fyter also wooed the lady, and the Witch dealt him the same blow, and he sought help from the same tinsmith, Ku-Klip. Fyter's head and parts of Nick and his body were incorporated into Chopfyt, a new person, through the use of magic glue found in the Witch's house. Ku-Klip was unable to find one arm, so he fashioned one out of tin. In this way, Chopfyt reminded her of both the men she loved, and she married him, and Baum presented them as a happy couple at the end of the novel, although Princess Ozma forbade Ku-Klip from ever doing such a thing again. This character is totally absent in the 1939 musical film. Ojo the Lucky is a Munchkin who appears in several Oz books, including The Patchwork Girl of Oz and Ojo in Oz. The Patchwork Girl, aka Scraps, appears in several Oz books beginning with The Patchwork Girl of Oz. She is a life-size doll made out of various patches like those on a patchwork quilt. The book revolves around her being created by Margolotte and brought to life by the magic substance called the Powder of Life, that was created by Margolotte's husband Dr. Pipt. She was filled with a mixture of character traits. Originally intended to be an unquestioning humble slave, she comes to life as a rather zany acrobatic person with a tendency to break into spontaneous poetry, all thanks to Ojo the Unlucky messing with the formula for her "brain furniture" and joining the adventure to find an antidote for petrification. In later books, she is often paired with the Scarecrow, being his main love interest. The Phonograph (also referred to as The Troublesome Phonograph) is a character who appeared in The Patchwork Girl of Oz. It originally belonged to Dr. Pipt, until it was inadvertently brought to life when it was accidentally sprinkled with the Powder of Life. The Phonograph has a large gold-colored horn, and is screwed to a tall, four-legged table, which it uses for movement. Once alive, it continued to bother the magician by playing loud and offensive "classical" music until it was at last forced from his home. It then tried to endear itself to the young Munchkin boy Ojo and his friends in much the same way (first with classical, then jazz), but was finally scared off by the Shaggy Man, who threatened to "scatter its pieces across the country, as a matter of kindness to the people of Oz." The Phonograph has never been seen since. The Phonograph's name is Victor Columbia Edison, but was dubbed Vic for short, by the Patchwork Girl. The Queen of the Field Mice is a gray mouse who rules the field mice of the Land of Oz. She was first seen in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz being chased by a wildcat until it was slain by the Tin Woodman. After introducing herself to Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, the Queen of the Field Mice called upon her subjects to help get the Cowardly Lion out of the deadly poppy field. Afterwards, the Queen of the Field Mice informs Dorothy of the Golden Cap that can summon and command the winged monkeys. In The Marvelous Land of Oz, the Queen of the Field Mice sends some of her subjects to help Scarecrow when he is overthrown from his position as the ruler of the Emerald City. The Queen of the Field Mice appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz. She is given the name Marie, and speaks with a French accent. According to The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904), the Woggle-Bug was once a regular tiny woggle-bug, about the size of a pea. He lived the life of a normal insect until he crawled into a country schoolhouse (presumably somewhere in the Winkie Country of the Land of Oz) and listened to the lessons and lectures the famous Professor Nowitall gave his pupils for about three years. One day, the teacher found and caught him, and decided to use him for an impromptu lesson on woggle-bugs. 