Ugu the shoemaker steals Cayke's dishpan and uses it to kidnap Ozma and steal all the magic in the Land of Oz. When Cayke discovers her dishpan has gone missing, she is greatly distressed, and causes quite a fuss by wailing and screaming. After the Frogman, who is thought to be extremely wise by all of the Yips, tells her that the dishpan has been stolen by someone outside of the country of the Yips, she leaves the plateau where the Yips live and travels the general land of Oz to find it. This trip makes her the first Yip to leave the plateau. Though the Frogman joins her, she was prepared to go alone, showing her courage and determination. Cayke is a relatively simple woman, but she is honest except when the truth will hurt someone's feelings, and seems to be generally good natured, if a little ill-tempered at times. According to Cayke, the diamond-studded gold dishpan has been passed down in her family, from her mother and all of her grandmothers since the beginning of time; but its origin is never disclosed. Cayke makes a brief appearance in Jeff Freedman's 1994 novel The Magic Dishpan of Oz (her dishpan plays a much greater role there). [21]
The Frogman is a human-sized frog who appears as a character who is first introduced in The Lost Princess of Oz (1917). [22] He was once an ordinary frog and his similarity to Professor Woggle-Bug is rather clear. Though unlike the Woggle-Bug, Frogman is not thoroughly educated and is much more interested in dandy fashion. He accidentally bathes in the Truth Pond and is thereafter magically compelled to speak only the truth. In The Magic of Oz, Frogman is among the guests at Princess Ozma's birthday party. In 1986, March Laumer made him, with the proper name Frederick Fraukx, the title character of The Frogman of Oz: The Oz Book for 1947, along with a U.S. Navy frogman. The Frogman is a crucial character in Jeff Freedman's 1994 novel The Magic Dishpan of Oz. The Frogman appears in Return to Oz. He is seen in the background at the coronation of Princess Ozma. Jack Pumpkinhead first appears in the second Oz book The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904). When Mombi animates a stick figure with a pumpkin for a head using the magic potion called "Powder of Life", it comes to life and is named Jack,  who then becomes friends with Mombi's slave named Tip. He then becomes Tip's companion for the rest of the book, and appears in several sequel books thereafter, including a titular appearance in Jack Pumpkinhead of Oz (1929). He is described as being a very timid and gentle character, one who wouldn't even harm a fly. Queen Ann Soforth is the ruler of Oogaboo who first appeared in Tik-Tok of Oz. The small fictional kingdom of Oogaboo is separated by a mountain range from the rest of the Winkie Country in the Land of Oz. Oogaboo is the smallest and poorest kingdom in Oz, despite the cultivation of trees which produce many items of value. The Rak is a flying fictional creature from the pages of Tik-Tok of Oz. [23] The Rak is described as a large winged creature with glowing red eyes that can fly in the air, run like a deer, and swim like a fish. Inside its body is a glowing furnace of fire which allows the creature to breathe out smoke. Its smoky breath blankets the surrounding area like a thick, black fog with an aroma of salt and pepper. It is bigger than a hundred men and feeds on any living thing. Like most other animals in the land of Oz, the Rak can speak. 