He is portrayed as having a very long green beard and carrying an unloaded rifle. He is alternately referred to as Omby Amby or Wantowin Battles. The Wizard of Oz is the title character of the first book. In that book, the characters journey to him for assistance with their problems. It is later revealed that he is a "Humbug" circus performer named Oscar Diggs from Omaha, Nebraska; and that he had usurped Ozma's throne with the assistance of Mombi (though this was later proven false). The Wizard later returns to Oz in the fourth book to permanently live there and later learns real magic from Glinda. The wizard is also shown to own The Nine Tiny Piglets which he uses for a trick among other things. His Kansas counterpart in the 1939 musical film is the travelling magician/fortune teller Professor Marvel; however, the character does not appear in the books as Oz is explicitly a real place, rather than implied to have been a dream. The following characters are associated with the fictional Northern division of oz called Gillikin Country. Gayelette was an ancient princess and sorceress who lived in a ruby palace in the northern quadrant called Gillikin Country of the Land of Oz. She was the original owner and creator of the charmed Golden Cap which had a curse cast upon it that compelled the creatures called Winged monkeys long before the Wicked Witch of the West surfaced. In The Hidden History of Oz series, it stated that Gayelette was the former Good Witch of the South and Glinda's mother. Gayelette was featured in Dorothy of Oz where she was the boss of the Jester before he became possessed by the Wicked Witch of the West's ghost. Quelala is a handsome man who Gayelette married. He was responsible for creating the Golden Cap that controls the winged monkeys which they used on them after they crashed their wedding day. Quelala was featured in Dorothy of Oz where he was the boss of the Jester before he became possessed by the Wicked Witch of the West's ghost. The Good Witch of the North is named Locasta—Tattypoo. She appears in the beginning of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). She is the first witch Dorothy Gale encounters upon her unexpected arrival to the Land of Oz. She is the official ruler of Oz's northern quadrant called Gillikin Country but is a very dear friend to the Munchkins. She is described as being very old in appearance and has a jolly and humble personality. She wears a magic white hat that can transform into a magic chalkboard, which she can consult for advice. After Dorothy's farmhouse landed in Munchkin Country and killed the Wicked Witch of the East, the Good Witch of the North gives Dorothy the dead witch's charmed Silver Shoes and kisses her on the forehead for protection while on her journey. She is mentioned in the book The Road to Oz (1909), but does not physically feature again until The Giant Horse of Oz (1928). Gugu is an enormous leopard that rules the Forest of Gugu in Gillikin Country. He rules it wisely and responsibly. In "The Magic of Oz," Gugu was transformed into a fat Gillikin woman when Ruggedo and Kiki Aru in the form of the Li-Mon-Eags trick the inhabitants into thinking that the Emerald City wants to conquer the Forest of Gugu. When Kiki Aru and Ruggedo are defeated, Gugu is restored to normal by the Wizard of Oz. In Eric Shanower's non-canon story Gugu and the Kalidahs, Gugu and his fellow inhabitants had to work to fight off renegade Kalidahs from the neighboring area. Gugu has a bear named Bru, a unicorn named Loo, and a gray ape named Rango as his councilors. The Lonesome Duck is a character in The Magic of Oz; he makes brief but gaudy appearances in two of the book's later chapters. [6]
The Lonesome Duck first appears when Cap'n Bill and Trot are trapped on the Magic Isle in the Gillikin Country. He swims "swiftly and gracefully" over to them, astonishing them with his "gorgeously colored plumage". In a brief conversation, the Duck explains why he is lonesome. 