He also had a post installed on his back so Jack could hold on while riding. His friends deride him as the least intelligent member of their party, though he usually has intelligent things to say when he speaks. The sawhorse is one of the fastest creatures in Oz because he never gets tired. He carries Glinda in her pursuit of Mombi into the Deadly Desert while the latter is in the form of a gryphon. Princess Ozma has his legs shod with plates of gold to keep his legs from wearing out. In The Marvelous Land of Oz, Baum emphasizes the awkwardness with which the sawhorse walks, tottering one way and then the other because his legs do not bend, and front and hind move together. In Ozma of Oz, he is described as walking as well as a real horse. However, he approaches the Giant with the Hammer too quickly and sends his rider Omby Amby up to the giant's arm. This knocks off his ears and leaves him deaf until they can be replaced. He is integral in defeating the Nome King, kicking him with his hind legs in order to protect Dorothy Gale. In later Oz books, he is frequently shown drawing Ozma's Red Wagon. One example is shown in Dorothy of Oz where he is enlisted by Glinda to carry Dorothy to her palace and then to the palace of Princess Gaylette. Both times, the Sawhorse ran fast enough to cross the hill of the Hammer-Heads without getting hit by their hard heads. The following characters are associated with the fictional Southern division of oz called Quadling Country. Bristle is a white rabbit from Bunnybury who first appears in The Emerald City of Oz. He works as the Keeper of the Wicket which is a name given to the Doorman of Bunnybury. He can only admit visitors with an order or letter of introduction from Ozma of Oz or Glinda the Good. When visitors are admitted, Bristle reduces them to the size of a rabbit before letting them into the village itself. The China Princess is a delicate and beautiful figurine made of china who appears in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. She lives in the tiny hidden enclave called "Dainty China Country" in the Quadling Country of the Land of Oz. She, like all the other china people, cannot leave their enclave or they will become lifeless and stiff. The China Princess appears in Legends of Oz: Dorothy's Return voiced by Megan Hilty. The Cowardly Lion is a talking lion who lives in the Land of Oz. He appears in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and becomes one of Dorothy Gale's first companions in Oz, joining her and the Scarecrow and Tin Woodman as he is in search of courage. At the end of the book, he becomes King of the Beasts in the dark forest in Oz's southern quadrant called Quadling Country, though this is rarely brought up in later Oz books. In the sequels, he appears in minor roles as Ozma's bodyguard and beast of burden, along with the Hungry Tiger. In The Cowardly Lion of Oz, a lion collector named King Mustafa seeks to capture him, while he seeks to restore his courage. The Good Witch of the South is named Glinda, who appears at the end of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). She is the sorceress who rules over the southern quadrant called Quadling Country in the Land of Oz. Her overall character is a figure that many of the other Oz characters consult when in trouble or in need of any assistance. Glinda is described as being highly intelligent, wise and independent. Outwardly, she is very beautiful despite the hundreds of years she has lived and is always honest, kind and gentle to everyone who encounters her. She also is one of the most powerful and respected women in Oz and the official protector of Oz's rightful ruler, the child Queen Princess Ozma. She became the official ruler of the southern quadrant called Quadling Country in the Land of Oz, after she vanquished the Wicked Witch of the South (previous ruler). 