Ruth Plumly Thompson gave the Tiger his own adventure in The Hungry Tiger of Oz (1926). The Hungry Tiger appears in Tom & Jerry: Back to Oz, voiced by Andrea Martin. This version is a female, and has a more anthropomorphic appearance than the literary version. The Hungry Tiger appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz, voiced by Bill Fagerbakke. The King of Bunnybury is a white rabbit who rules Bunnybury as seen in The Emerald City of Oz. As king, he is very unhappy where he is not being allowed to run wild and free like the other rabbits. He is shown to have an attendant named Blinkem, who also first appears in The Emerald City of Oz. King Krewl is an evil dictator who appears in The Scarecrow of Oz. He previously ruled over Jinxland in the Quadling Country before being deposed. In the 1914 film His Majesty, the Scarecrow of Oz, he was played by Raymond Russell. In the 1925 film The Wizard of Oz, he was played by Josef Swickard. The Wicked Witch of the South is a wicked witch that ruled over Quadling Country. She was mentioned in Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz to have been overthrown by Glinda. The book The Wicked Witch of Oz features a variation of the character named Singra. The following characters are associated with the fictional Eastern division of oz called Munchkin Country. The Munchkins are a race of little people who wear blue, they are the first to welcome Dorothy to Oz. Other creatures are shown to live in the county though as well. Boq is a minor character who appears in the beginning of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. He is depicted as a wealthy Munchkin man with a large family who offers Dorothy Gale and Toto shelter after throwing a lavish banquet in Dorothy's honor upon her arrival to the Land of Oz. Boq plays a much larger role in the Wicked books and the successful Broadway musical of the same name. In Wicked, Boq is a Munchkin who attends Shiz University with Elphaba and Galinda. In the musical adaptation of Wicked (but not in Baum's or Gregory Maguire's books), Boq becomes the Tin Woodman. Dr. Pipt is sometimes called " The Crooked Magician." He first appears in The Patchwork Girl of Oz. He is so crooked that his legs are nearly as handy as his arms. When he sits, one knee is under his chin and the other behind his back. Dr. Pipt lives in the Munchkin Country with his wife Margolotte. He is notable for creating the Patchwork Girl (who was created by Dr. Pipt's wife, Margolotte) and the Glass Cat. [11]
Dr. Pipt also invented the Powder of Life. Although in The Marvelous Land of Oz, has this invention credited to another crooked magician named Dr. Nikidik from the Gillikin Country. In an article in the Spring 1965 issue of The Baum Bugle, Lee Speth argues that Nikidik faked his death in the earlier book, to assume a new identity as Pipt. He was deprived of his magic abilities by Glinda for doing magic without a permit. Glinda also straightened his crooked limbs. In The Lost Princess of Oz, Dr. Pipt assists Ojo and Unc Nunkie in a search party that is organized to find Princess Ozma. 