He has a chivalrous instinct to protect children from monsters. He first appears in The Road to Oz as Dorothy's protector, and plays major roles in The Patchwork Girl of Oz and Tik-Tok of Oz. He is similar to Captain Bill Weedles, another "fatherly protector" character. Ruth Plumly Thompson and John R. Neill largely ignored the Shaggy Man and Captain Bill, giving the "fatherly protector" role to new characters, including Sir Hokus of Pokes, in many stories. Jack Snow restored the Shaggy Man's place and gave him a lead role in The Shaggy Man of Oz in 1949. The Shaggy Man has an unnamed brother who is simply dubbed Shaggy Man's Brother. His name is given in the play The Tik-Tok Man of Oz as Wiggy. He was a gold miner in Colorado until he ended up in the Nome Kingdom and was taken prisoner by the Nome King who imprisoned him in the Metal Forest. After finding out about his brother's plight 10 years later, Shaggy Man led some of his friends to the Nome Kingdom to rescue him. Afterwards, Princess Ozma allowed him to live in the Land of Oz. He appears to be less adventurous than his brother, as his subsequent appearances are limited to cameos in crowd scenes. Mayre "Trot" Griffiths is a young girl who comes to Oz in The Scarecrow of Oz, along with her friend Cap'n Bill, and becomes a friend and companion of Dorothy, Ozma and Betsy. She is also the protagonist of The Sea Fairies and Sky Island. She appears in the second season of Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz, voiced by Kari Wahlgren. Zebediah Hugson is a boy who is a distant cousin of Dorothy Gale, apparently related through Dorothy's Aunt Em. He works for his uncle, Bill Hugson, at Hugson's Ranch in California, where he also lives. Zeb appears in Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz (1908). Zeb first meets Dorothy at Hugson's Siding, when he picks her up in a carriage pulled by Jim the Cab-horse. On their way to the Hugson's Ranch, an earthquake causes everyone to fall into the earth and into the Land of the Mangaboos. Zeb, Dorothy, Jim, and Dorothy's kitten Eureka are soon joined by Oscar Diggs aka the Wizard of Oz. The travelers undertake a subterranean journey through the Valley of Voe, are briefly imprisoned in the Land of Naught, and encounter a cavern full of Dragonettes. Despite his reservations about being in a strange land, Zeb courageously defends his friends and helps them escape from the Land of Gargoyles by obtaining pairs of gargoyle wings. After Ozma uses the Magic Belt to bring them to the Land of Oz, Zeb is welcomed as an honoured guest in the Emerald City. During the festivities held to celebrate the arrival of Dorothy and her friends, Zeb participates in a wrestling match with a Munchkin boy, which he loses, and then a boxing match, which Zeb wins. He later serves as one of the nine members of the jury during the trial of Eureka. While the Wizard accepts Ozma's invitation to remain in Oz, Dorothy, Zeb, and their animals decide to return home. Though Zeb remarks that Oz is a nice country, he admits that he and Jim feel out of place in a fairy country and wishes to return to Hugson's Ranch with Jim. Zeb's last evening in Oz is described as being so wonderful, he never forgot it as long as he lived. In The Oz Kids, he somehow came back to Oz and married Dorothy. The couple had two children named Dot and Neddie Hugson. The following characters are associated with the central portion of Oz known as the Emerald City. The Guardian of the Gates is a character in several of the Oz books. He is never known by any other name, but he is depicted as a singular character who lives in a small room, based on its description significantly larger than a standard guardhouse, in the wall that surrounds the Emerald City. In The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900) and The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904), his job is to adorn green spectacle glasses around the heads of all visitors to the Emerald City before they enter. It is claimed that this is done to protect their eyes from the thousands of glittering green gems within the city that are so precious and rare, they would cause blindness without the spectacles. In fact Oz is "no more green than any other city" and it is yet another "humbug" created by the Wizard. [5]  The glasses can only be unlocked by a solid gold key that the Guardian always wears on a thick gold chain around his neck. After The Marvelous Land of Oz he abandoned the practice, for General Jinjur's Army of Revolt and Tippetarius had all entered the city without damage to their eyes. The Guardian of the Gates appears only occasionally after this book, and his duty becomes significantly lighter. In The Patchwork Girl of Oz (1913) when Ojo the Lucky reaches the city, he and his companions are taken into the Guardian's room, where the Soldier with the Green Whiskers tells the Guardian of the Gates that he has a note from Ozma that Ojo is to be taken prisoner. 