He accidentally bathes in the Truth Pond and is thereafter magically compelled to speak only the truth. In The Magic of Oz, Frogman is among the guests at Princess Ozma's birthday party. In 1986, March Laumer made him, with the proper name Frederick Fraukx, the title character of The Frogman of Oz: The Oz Book for 1947, along with a U.S. Navy frogman. The Frogman is a crucial character in Jeff Freedman's 1994 novel The Magic Dishpan of Oz. The Frogman appears in Return to Oz. He is seen in the background at the coronation of Princess Ozma. Jack Pumpkinhead first appears in the second Oz book The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904). When Mombi animates a stick figure with a pumpkin for a head using the magic potion called "Powder of Life", it comes to life and is named Jack,  who then becomes friends with Mombi's slave named Tip. He then becomes Tip's companion for the rest of the book, and appears in several sequel books thereafter, including a titular appearance in Jack Pumpkinhead of Oz (1929). He is described as being a very timid and gentle character, one who wouldn't even harm a fly. Queen Ann Soforth is the ruler of Oogaboo who first appeared in Tik-Tok of Oz. The small fictional kingdom of Oogaboo is separated by a mountain range from the rest of the Winkie Country in the Land of Oz. Oogaboo is the smallest and poorest kingdom in Oz, despite the cultivation of trees which produce many items of value. The Rak is a flying fictional creature from the pages of Tik-Tok of Oz. [23] The Rak is described as a large winged creature with glowing red eyes that can fly in the air, run like a deer, and swim like a fish. Inside its body is a glowing furnace of fire which allows the creature to breathe out smoke. Its smoky breath blankets the surrounding area like a thick, black fog with an aroma of salt and pepper. It is bigger than a hundred men and feeds on any living thing. Like most other animals in the land of Oz, the Rak can speak. The Rak's vague descriptions given in the storybook lead one to believe that the Rak is a type of dragon. In Tik-Tok of Oz, the Rak is briefly encountered by Queen Ann Soforth and her army and wounded by gunfire. Although its jaw, wing and leg are broken by the attack, the Rak does not die, as everything in the land of Oz lives an enchanted life and cannot die. The Rak appears in Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz. The Scarecrow first appears in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, when he joins Dorothy to go to the Wizard in search of brains. When the Wizard leaves Oz, he makes the Scarecrow ruler, a position he holds until the middle of the second book. Later, he moves to a corn-shaped house in the Winkie Country. The Scarecrow appears in many of the later books, including The Scarecrow of Oz (where he is the title character) and The Royal Book of Oz (where he researches his ancestry). He was played by Ray Bolger in the 1939 movie. That actor also played the Scarecrow's Kansan counterpart, Hunk, who was one of Aunt Em and Uncle Henry's three farmworkers. The Tin Woodman first appears in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, joining Dorothy's quest to see the Wizard in order to get a heart. 