The creatures play an important part in Eric Shanower's "Gugu and the Kalidahs. "[13] Phyllis Ann Karr's short story "The Guardian Dove," published in the 1990 issue of Oziana, provides a detailed treatment of Kalidah culture. The 1975 stage musical The Wiz includes a musical number "Kalidah Battle," featuring the Kalidah Queen and two of her gang. [14] In the film adaptation of The Wiz, the Kalidahs are two red paper lantern-alike marionettes controlled by the Subway Peddler, the Wicked Witch of the West's henchman. During the attack in the New York City Subway, it's shown that the Kalidahs are able to separate from their strings, become two meters high and chase anyone the Peddler wants. After the Wicked Witch of West is defeated, when her henchmen (the Peddler included) and her slaves turn into Winkies by tearing their costumes and burning them, the Kalidahs may be destroyed in the process. In The Muppets' Wizard of Oz, the Kalidahs are portrayed by Statler and Waldorf. Kiki Aru is a Munchkin from the Hyup community on Mount Munch who appears in The Magic of Oz. He is the son of Bini Aru who learned the transformation magic by saying the magic word "Pyrzqxgl." When Princess Ozma made a decree that limits who can learn magic, Kiki discovered the words and used it to turn into a hawk where he flew to the Land of Ev. After being reprimanded by a sparrow for stealing a coin in the form of a magpie, Kiki was approached by the former Nome King Ruggedo who ropes Kiki into helping him with his plot. Transforming themselves into birds, Kiki and Ruggedo flew to the Land of Oz to avoid being detected by the Great Book of Records. Upon transforming themselves into Li-Mon-Eags (creatures with the head of a lion, the body of a monkey, the wings of an eagle, and the knob-tipped tail of a donkey) who claim to be from Sky Island, Kiki and Ruggedo spread the rumors to the animals of the Forest of Gugu that the humans of Oz plan to harm their forest. This was thwarted by the Wizard who used the magic word to turn Kiki and Ruggedo into different nuts. After being restored to normal, Kiki and Ruggedo were hit with a thirst-inducing magic and drank from the forbidden fountain where they lost their memories and their evil intentions. Ku-Klip is a character who is the originally unnamed tinsmith in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz who provided Nick Chopper with tin prostheses when the latter was cursed to dismember himself by the Wicked Witch of the East because of his love for the servant Nimmie Amee. [15] In The Tin Woodman of Oz, we are introduced to a soldier named Captain Fyter, who met with the same fate due to his interest in Nimmie Amee, and Ku-Klip did the same for him. After the witch was destroyed by Dorothy Gale's house, Ku-Klip entered the witch's house and took some of her magical devices, including a magic glue. He had thrown Chopper and Fyter's discarded body parts into a barrel, and decided to use this glue (originally referred to as "Meat Glue" in early editions of the book, but later changed)[16] to assemble the parts from two men into a man called Chopfyt, but he finds he must substitute a tin arm as well. Nimmie Amee marries the assemblage and appears to be quite happy, but Princess Ozma takes the witch's tools away from the smith so that he cannot create any more unnatural beings. Ku-Klip continues to keep Nick Chopper's flesh head, who finds the Tin Woodman's claim to be him ludicrous, in a cabinet. Nimmie Amee is the Munchkin maiden whom the Tin Woodman once loved in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. [17] She was not named until The Tin Woodman of Oz, as Nick Chopper never went to find her after the Wizard gave him a "kind" but not a "loving" heart, until that novel's protagonist, Woot the Wanderer, encouraged him to do so. In The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, the Tin Woodman tells Dorothy Gale and the Scarecrow that the lady was a servant for an old woman who did not wish her to marry, and so sought the aid of the Wicked Witch of the East to place a spell on him that caused him to cut himself up with his axe while carrying on his livelihood. In The Tin Woodman of Oz, this was retconned, and in Nick's new telling, she was directly enslaved by the Witch herself. Nimmie Amee was aware of the spell, which occurred gradually, and was not bothered by his condition and still wished to marry him, but he lost interest when he lost his heart (In Wizard, he lost his heart after his head; in Tin Woodman, he lost his head last and the Witch ran around with it in her arms). Soon a soldier named Captain Fyter also wooed the lady, and the Witch dealt him the same blow, and he sought help from the same tinsmith, Ku-Klip. Fyter's head and parts of Nick and his body were incorporated into Chopfyt, a new person, through the use of magic glue found in the Witch's house. Ku-Klip was unable to find one arm, so he fashioned one out of tin. In this way, Chopfyt reminded her of both the men she loved, and she married him, and Baum presented them as a happy couple at the end of the novel, although Princess Ozma forbade Ku-Klip from ever doing such a thing again. 