In The Muppets' Wizard of Oz, Sam the Eagle portrays "the Gate Guard." In The Wiz Live!, Common portrays "The Bouncer / The Gatekeeper Of The Entrance To The Emerald City." Jellia Jamb, aka the "pretty green girl", is the head maid of the Emerald City's royal palace. She first appears in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900) and is first named in The Marvelous Land of Oz (1904). Jellia Jamb is portrayed as a rather sweet and organized girl when on duty, but mischievous and playful when off duty. She is said to be very pretty, with green hair and green eyes. King Pastoria was the rightful King of Oz until he was removed from power by Mombi. He is the father of Princess Ozma. Princess Ozma is the ruler of Oz since the end of the second book, and she has appeared in every book except the first. Prior to the second book, she had been transformed by the evil Mombi into a young boy named Tip. In many of the books, she is depicted as a fairy princess of fourteen or fifteen years of age, though she was originally portrayed as not a fairy and much younger. She is the title character in Ozma of Oz and The Lost Princess of Oz, and The Road to Oz is about a journey to her birthday party. In Jack Snow's Murder in Oz, Ozma's Tip persona reclaims his life, causing Ozma to die, and the Wizard has to find a way to have both Tip and Ozma alive and well at the same time. The Soldier with the Green Whiskers is Oz's one-man army. He appears in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900) and the many sequel books. He is portrayed as having a very long green beard and carrying an unloaded rifle. He is alternately referred to as Omby Amby or Wantowin Battles. The Wizard of Oz is the title character of the first book. In that book, the characters journey to him for assistance with their problems. It is later revealed that he is a "Humbug" circus performer named Oscar Diggs from Omaha, Nebraska; and that he had usurped Ozma's throne with the assistance of Mombi (though this was later proven false). The Wizard later returns to Oz in the fourth book to permanently live there and later learns real magic from Glinda. The wizard is also shown to own The Nine Tiny Piglets which he uses for a trick among other things. His Kansas counterpart in the 1939 musical film is the travelling magician/fortune teller Professor Marvel; however, the character does not appear in the books as Oz is explicitly a real place, rather than implied to have been a dream. The following characters are associated with the fictional Northern division of oz called Gillikin Country. Gayelette was an ancient princess and sorceress who lived in a ruby palace in the northern quadrant called Gillikin Country of the Land of Oz. She was the original owner and creator of the charmed Golden Cap which had a curse cast upon it that compelled the creatures called Winged monkeys long before the Wicked Witch of the West surfaced. In The Hidden History of Oz series, it stated that Gayelette was the former Good Witch of the South and Glinda's mother. Gayelette was featured in Dorothy of Oz where she was the boss of the Jester before he became possessed by the Wicked Witch of the West's ghost. Quelala is a handsome man who Gayelette married. He was responsible for creating the Golden Cap that controls the winged monkeys which they used on them after they crashed their wedding day. Quelala was featured in Dorothy of Oz where he was the boss of the Jester before he became possessed by the Wicked Witch of the West's ghost. The Good Witch of the North is named Locasta—Tattypoo. She appears in the beginning of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). She is the first witch Dorothy Gale encounters upon her unexpected arrival to the Land of Oz. 